README.md, before:

# serverless-domain-manager
[![serverless](http://public.serverless.com/badges/v3.svg)](http://www.serverless.com)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-domain-manager.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-domain-manager)
[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/master/LICENSE)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/235fe249b8354a3db0cc5926dba47899)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/serverless-domain-manager.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-domain-manager)

Create custom domain names that your lambda can deploy to with serverless. Allows for base path mapping when deploying and deletion of domain names.

# About Amplify
Amplify builds innovative and compelling digital educational products that empower teachers and students across the country. We have a long history as the leading innovator in K-12 education - and have been described as the best tech company in education and the best education company in tech. While others try to shrink the learning experience into the technology, we use technology to expand what is possible in real classrooms with real students and teachers.

Learn more at https://www.amplify.com

# Getting Started

## Prerequisites
Make sure you have the following installed before starting:
* [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm?utm_source=house&utm_medium=homepage&utm_campaign=free%20orgs&utm_term=Install%20npm)
* [serverless](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/installation/)

The IAM role that is deploying the lambda will need the following permissions:
```
acm:ListCertificates                *
acm:DescribeCertificate             *
apigateway:GET                      /domainnames/*
apigateway:GET                      /domainnames/*/basepathmappings
apigateway:DELETE                   /domainnames/*
apigateway:POST                     /domainnames
apigateway:POST                     /domainnames/*/basepathmappings
apigateway:PATCH                    /domainnames/*/basepathmapping
cloudformation:GET                  *
cloudfront:UpdateDistribution       *
route53:ListHostedZones             *
route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets    hostedzone/{HostedZoneId}
route53:GetHostedZone               *
route53:ListResourceRecordSets      *
iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole         arn:aws:iam::${AWS::AccountId}: role/aws-service-role/ops.apigateway.amazonaws.com/AWSServiceRoleForAPIGateway
s3:ListBucket                       *
s3:GetObject                        *
```
### CloudFormation
Alternatively you can generate an least privileged IAM Managed Policy for deployment with this:

[deployment policy cloudformation template](scripts/cloudformation/serverless-domain-manager-deploy-policy.yaml)

## Installing
```
# From npm (recommended)
npm install serverless-domain-manager --save-dev
```

Then make the following edits to your serverless.yaml file:

Add the plugin.

```yaml
plugins:
  - serverless-domain-manager
```

Add the plugin configuration (example for `serverless.foo.com/api`). For a single domain and API type the following structure can be used.

```yaml
custom:
  customDomain:
    domainName: serverless.foo.com
    stage: ci
    basePath: api
    certificateName: '*.foo.com'
    createRoute53Record: true
    createRoute53IPv6Record: true
    endpointType: REGIONAL
    securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    apiType: rest
    autoDomain: false
```

Multiple API types mapped to different domains can also be supported with the following structure. The key is the API Gateway API type.

```yaml
custom:
  customDomain:
    rest:
      domainName: rest.serverless.foo.com
      stage: ci
      basePath: api
      certificateName: '*.foo.com'
      createRoute53Record: true
      createRoute53IPv6Record: true
      endpointType: REGIONAL
      securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    http:
      domainName: http.serverless.foo.com
      stage: ci
      basePath: api
      certificateName: '*.foo.com'
      createRoute53Record: true
      createRoute53IPv6Record: true
      endpointType: REGIONAL
      securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    websocket:
      domainName: ws.serverless.foo.com
      stage: ci
      basePath: api
      certificateName: '*.foo.com'
      createRoute53Record: true
      createRoute53IPv6Record: true
      endpointType: REGIONAL
      securityPolicy: tls_1_2
```

Or for multiple domains

```yaml
custom:
  customDomains:
    - http:
        domainName: http-api-${opt:RANDOM_STRING}.${env:TEST_DOMAIN}
        basePath: ''
        endpointType: REGIONAL
    - http:
        domainName: http-api-${opt:RANDOM_STRING}.${env:TEST_DOMAIN}.foo
        basePath: ''
        endpointType: REGIONAL
```

For multi-region deployments, a `route53Params` structure can be used to support latency or weighted routing policies

```yaml
custom:
  customDomain:
    domainName: serverless.foo.com
    stage: ci
    basePath: api
    certificateName: '*.foo.com'
    createRoute53Record: true
    endpointType: REGIONAL
    securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    route53Params:
      routingPolicy: latency
```

| Parameter Name | Default Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| domainName _(Required)_ | | The domain name to be created in API Gateway and Route53 (if enabled) for this API. |
| basePath | `(none)` | The base path that will prepend all API endpoints. |
| stage | Value of `--stage`, or `provider.stage` (serverless will default to `dev` if unset) | The stage to create the domain name for. This parameter allows you to specify a different stage for the domain name than the stage specified for the serverless deployment. |
| certificateName | Closest match | The name of a specific certificate from Certificate Manager to use with this API. If not specified, the closest match will be used (i.e. for a given domain name `api.example.com`, a certificate for `api.example.com` will take precedence over a `*.example.com` certificate). <br><br> Note: Edge-optimized endpoints require that the certificate be located in `us-east-1` to be used with the CloudFront distribution. |
| certificateArn | `(none)` | The arn of a specific certificate from Certificate Manager to use with this API. |
| createRoute53Record | `true` | Toggles whether or not the plugin will create A Alias and AAAA Alias records in Route53 mapping the `domainName` to the generated distribution domain name. If false, does not create a record. |
| createRoute53IPv6Record | `true` | Toggles whether or not the plugin will create an AAAA Alias record in Route53 mapping the `domainName` to the generated distribution domain name. If false, does not create a record. |
| route53Profile | `(none)` | Profile to use for accessing Route53 resources when Route53 records are in a different account |
| route53Region | `(none)` | Region to send Route53 services requests to (only applicable if also using route53Profile option) |
| endpointType | `EDGE` | Defines the endpoint type, accepts `REGIONAL` or `EDGE`. |
| apiType | rest | Defines the api type, accepts `rest`, `http` or `websocket`. |
| tlsTruststoreUri | `undefined` | An Amazon S3 url that specifies the truststore for mutual TLS authentication, for example `s3://bucket-name/key-name`. The truststore can contain certificates from public or private certificate authorities. Be aware mutual TLS is only available for `regional` APIs. |
| tlsTruststoreVersion | `undefined` | The version of the S3 object that contains your truststore. To specify a version, you must have versioning enabled for the S3 bucket. |
| hostedZoneId | | If hostedZoneId is set the route53 record set will be created in the matching zone, otherwise the hosted zone will be figured out from the domainName (hosted zone with matching domain). |
| hostedZonePrivate | | If hostedZonePrivate is set to `true` then only private hosted zones will be used for route 53 records. If it is set to `false` then only public hosted zones will be used for route53 records. Setting this parameter is specially useful if you have multiple hosted zones with the same domain name (e.g. a public and a private one) |
| enabled | true | Sometimes there are stages for which is not desired to have custom domain names. This flag allows the developer to disable the plugin for such cases. Accepts either `boolean` or `string` values and defaults to `true` for backwards compatibility. |
securityPolicy | tls_1_2 | The security policy to apply to the custom domain name.  Accepts `tls_1_0` or `tls_1_2`|
allowPathMatching | false | When updating an existing api mapping this will match on the basePath instead of the API ID to find existing mappings for an update. This should only be used when changing API types. For example, migrating a REST API to an HTTP API. See Changing API Types for more information.  |
| autoDomain | `false` | Toggles whether or not the plugin will run `create_domain/delete_domain` as part of `sls deploy/remove` so that multiple commands are not required. |
| autoDomainWaitFor | `120` | How long to wait for create_domain to finish before starting deployment if domain does not exist immediately. |
| route53Params |  | A set of options to customize Route 53 record creation. If left empty, A and AAAA records with simple routing will be created. If `createRoute53Record` is `false`, anything passed here will be ignored.  |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; routingPolicy | simple | Defines the Route 53 routing policy, accepts `simple`, `latency` or `weighted`. |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; weight | `200` | Sets the weight for weighted routing. Ignored for `simple` and `latency` routing. |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; setIdentifier |  | A unique identifier for records in a set of Route 53 records with the same domain name. Only relevant for `latency` and `weighted` routing. Defaults to the regional endpoint if not provided. |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; healthCheckId |  | An optional id for a Route 53 health check. If it is failing, Route 53 will stop routing to it. Only relevant for `latency` and `weighted` routing. If it is not provided, no health check will be associated with the record. |
| preserveExternalPathMappings | `false` | When `autoDomain` is set to true, and a deployment is removed, setting this to `true` checks for additional API Gateway base path mappings before automatically deleting the domain, and avoids doing so if they exist. |

## Running

To create the custom domain:
```
serverless create_domain
```

To deploy with the custom domain:
```
serverless deploy
```

To remove the created custom domain:
```
serverless delete_domain
```
# How it works
Creating the custom domain takes advantage of Amazon's Certificate Manager to assign a certificate to the given domain name. Based on already created certificate names, the plugin will search for the certificate that resembles the custom domain's name the most and assign the ARN to that domain name. The plugin then creates the proper A Alias and AAAA Alias records for the domain through Route 53. Once the domain name is set it takes up to 40 minutes before it is initialized. After the certificate is initialized, `sls deploy` will create the base path mapping and assign the lambda to the custom domain name through CloudFront. All resources are created independent of CloudFormation. However, deploying will also output the domain name and distribution domain name to the CloudFormation stack outputs under the keys `DomainName` and `DistributionDomainName`, respectively.

### Behavior Change in Version 3

In version 3, we decided to create/update/delete all resources through the API. Previously, only the basepath mapping was managed through CloudFormation. We moved away from creating anything through the stack for two reasons.

1) It seemed cleaner to have all resources be created in the same fashion, rather than just having one created elsewhere. Since multiple CloudFormation stacks can't create the same custom domain, we decided to have everything be done through the API.

2) We ran into issues such as [#57](https://github.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/issues/57) where the CloudFormation wasn't always being applied.

However, we still add the domain name and distribution domain name to the CloudFormation outputs, preserving the functionality requested in [#43](https://github.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/issues/43) implemented in [#47](https://github.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/pull/47).

## Running Tests
To run unit tests:
```
npm test
```

To run integration tests, set an environment variable `TEST_DOMAIN` to the domain you will be testing for (i.e. `example.com` if creating a domain for `api.example.com`). 
And `ROUTE53_PROFILE` for creating route53 record in one AWS account and deploy in another. Then,
```
export TEST_DOMAIN=example.com
export ROUTE53_PROFILE=default
export TLS_TRUSTSTORE_URI=s3://bucket-name/key-name
export TLS_TRUSTSTORE_VERSION=default

npm run build
npm run integration-test
```

All tests should pass. All unit tests should pass before merging. Integration tests will take an extremely long time, as DNS records have to propogate for the resources created - therefore, integration tests will not be run on every commit.

If there is an error update the node_modules inside the serverless-domain-manager folder:
```
npm install
```

## Writing Integration Tests
Unit tests are found in `test/unit-tests`. Integration tests are found in `test/integration-tests`. Each folder in `tests/integration-tests` contains the serverless-domain-manager configuration being tested. To create a new integration test, create a new folder for the `handler.js` and `serverless.yml` with the same naming convention and update `deploy.test.ts` or create a separate one with the `test.ts` ending.

## Changing API Types
AWS API Gateway has three different API types: REST, HTTP, and WebSocket. Special steps need to be taken when migrating from one api type to another. A common migration will be from a REST API to an HTTP API given the potential cost savings. Below are the steps required to change from REST to HTTP. A similar process can be applied for other API type migrations.

**REST to HTTP**
1) Confirm the Domain name is a Regional domain name. Edge domains are not supported by AWS for HTTP APIs. See this [guide for migrating an edge-optimized custom domain name to regional](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-regional-api-custom-domain-migrate.html).
2) Wait for all DNS changes to take effect/propagate and ensure all traffic is being routed to the regional domain name before proceeding.
3) Make sure you have setup new or modified existing routes to use [httpApi event](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/events/http-api) in your serverless.yml file.
4) Make the following changes to the `customDomain` properties in the serverless.yml confg:
    ```yaml
    endpointType: REGIONAL
    apiType: http
    allowPathMatching: true # Only for one deploy
    ```
5) Run `sls deploy`
6) Remove the `allowPathMatching` option, it should only be used once when migrating a base path from one API type to another.

NOTE: Always test this process in a lower level staging or development environment before performing it in production.


# Known Issues
* (5/23/2017) CloudFormation does not support changing the base path from empty to something or vice a versa. You must run `sls remove` to remove the base path mapping.
* (1/17/2018) The `create_domain` command provided by this plugin does not currently update an existing Custom Domain's configuration. Instead, it only supports updating the Route 53 record pointing to the Custom Domain. For example, one must delete and recreate a Custom Domain to migrate it from regional to edge or vice versa, or to modify the certificate.
* (8/22/2018) Creating a custom domain creates a CloudFront Distribution behind the scenes for fronting your API Gateway. This CloudFront Distribution is managed by AWS and cannot be viewed/managed by you. This is not a bug, but a quirk of how the Custom Domain feature works in API Gateway.
* (2/12/2019) Users who upgraded from 2.x.x to version 3.0.4 (now unpublished) and then reverted back to 2.x.x will be unable to deploy because of a bug that will be fixed in 3.1.0. The workaround is to delete the basepath mapping manually, which will let them successfully revert back to 2.x.x.
* (1/20/2022) Using `route53Profile` option requires having hosted zone for the domain in this profile and ACM certificate in the main profile (where functions are deployed).  

# Responsible Disclosure
If you have any security issue to report, contact project maintainers privately.
You can reach us at <github@amplify.com>

# Contributing
We welcome pull requests! For your pull request to be accepted smoothly, we suggest that you:
1. For any sizable change, first open a GitHub issue to discuss your idea.
2. Create a pull request.  Explain why you want to make the change and what it’s for.
We’ll try to answer any PR’s promptly.

Commit message:

feat: add support for split-horizon dns

README.md, after:

# serverless-domain-manager
[![serverless](http://public.serverless.com/badges/v3.svg)](http://www.serverless.com)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-domain-manager.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-domain-manager)
[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/master/LICENSE)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/235fe249b8354a3db0cc5926dba47899)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/serverless-domain-manager.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-domain-manager)

Create custom domain names that your lambda can deploy to with serverless. Allows for base path mapping when deploying and deletion of domain names.

# About Amplify
Amplify builds innovative and compelling digital educational products that empower teachers and students across the country. We have a long history as the leading innovator in K-12 education - and have been described as the best tech company in education and the best education company in tech. While others try to shrink the learning experience into the technology, we use technology to expand what is possible in real classrooms with real students and teachers.

Learn more at https://www.amplify.com

# Getting Started

## Prerequisites
Make sure you have the following installed before starting:
* [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm?utm_source=house&utm_medium=homepage&utm_campaign=free%20orgs&utm_term=Install%20npm)
* [serverless](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/installation/)

The IAM role that is deploying the lambda will need the following permissions:
```
acm:ListCertificates                *
acm:DescribeCertificate             *
apigateway:GET                      /domainnames/*
apigateway:GET                      /domainnames/*/basepathmappings
apigateway:DELETE                   /domainnames/*
apigateway:POST                     /domainnames
apigateway:POST                     /domainnames/*/basepathmappings
apigateway:PATCH                    /domainnames/*/basepathmapping
cloudformation:GET                  *
cloudfront:UpdateDistribution       *
route53:ListHostedZones             *
route53:ChangeResourceRecordSets    hostedzone/{HostedZoneId}
route53:GetHostedZone               *
route53:ListResourceRecordSets      *
iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole         arn:aws:iam::${AWS::AccountId}: role/aws-service-role/ops.apigateway.amazonaws.com/AWSServiceRoleForAPIGateway
s3:ListBucket                       *
s3:GetObject                        *
```
### CloudFormation
Alternatively you can generate an least privileged IAM Managed Policy for deployment with this:

[deployment policy cloudformation template](scripts/cloudformation/serverless-domain-manager-deploy-policy.yaml)

## Installing
```
# From npm (recommended)
npm install serverless-domain-manager --save-dev
```

Then make the following edits to your serverless.yaml file:

Add the plugin.

```yaml
plugins:
  - serverless-domain-manager
```

Add the plugin configuration (example for `serverless.foo.com/api`). For a single domain and API type the following structure can be used.

```yaml
custom:
  customDomain:
    domainName: serverless.foo.com
    stage: ci
    basePath: api
    certificateName: '*.foo.com'
    createRoute53Record: true
    createRoute53IPv6Record: true
    endpointType: REGIONAL
    securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    apiType: rest
    autoDomain: false
```

Multiple API types mapped to different domains can also be supported with the following structure. The key is the API Gateway API type.

```yaml
custom:
  customDomain:
    rest:
      domainName: rest.serverless.foo.com
      stage: ci
      basePath: api
      certificateName: '*.foo.com'
      createRoute53Record: true
      createRoute53IPv6Record: true
      endpointType: REGIONAL
      securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    http:
      domainName: http.serverless.foo.com
      stage: ci
      basePath: api
      certificateName: '*.foo.com'
      createRoute53Record: true
      createRoute53IPv6Record: true
      endpointType: REGIONAL
      securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    websocket:
      domainName: ws.serverless.foo.com
      stage: ci
      basePath: api
      certificateName: '*.foo.com'
      createRoute53Record: true
      createRoute53IPv6Record: true
      endpointType: REGIONAL
      securityPolicy: tls_1_2
```

Or for multiple domains

```yaml
custom:
  customDomains:
    - http:
        domainName: http-api-${opt:RANDOM_STRING}.${env:TEST_DOMAIN}
        basePath: ''
        endpointType: REGIONAL
    - http:
        domainName: http-api-${opt:RANDOM_STRING}.${env:TEST_DOMAIN}.foo
        basePath: ''
        endpointType: REGIONAL
```

For multi-region deployments, a `route53Params` structure can be used to support latency or weighted routing policies

```yaml
custom:
  customDomain:
    domainName: serverless.foo.com
    stage: ci
    basePath: api
    certificateName: '*.foo.com'
    createRoute53Record: true
    endpointType: REGIONAL
    securityPolicy: tls_1_2
    route53Params:
      routingPolicy: latency
```

| Parameter Name | Default Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| domainName _(Required)_ | | The domain name to be created in API Gateway and Route53 (if enabled) for this API. |
| basePath | `(none)` | The base path that will prepend all API endpoints. |
| stage | Value of `--stage`, or `provider.stage` (serverless will default to `dev` if unset) | The stage to create the domain name for. This parameter allows you to specify a different stage for the domain name than the stage specified for the serverless deployment. |
| certificateName | Closest match | The name of a specific certificate from Certificate Manager to use with this API. If not specified, the closest match will be used (i.e. for a given domain name `api.example.com`, a certificate for `api.example.com` will take precedence over a `*.example.com` certificate). <br><br> Note: Edge-optimized endpoints require that the certificate be located in `us-east-1` to be used with the CloudFront distribution. |
| certificateArn | `(none)` | The arn of a specific certificate from Certificate Manager to use with this API. |
| createRoute53Record | `true` | Toggles whether or not the plugin will create A Alias and AAAA Alias records in Route53 mapping the `domainName` to the generated distribution domain name. If false, does not create a record. |
| createRoute53IPv6Record | `true` | Toggles whether or not the plugin will create an AAAA Alias record in Route53 mapping the `domainName` to the generated distribution domain name. If false, does not create a record. |
| route53Profile | `(none)` | Profile to use for accessing Route53 resources when Route53 records are in a different account |
| route53Region | `(none)` | Region to send Route53 services requests to (only applicable if also using route53Profile option) |
| endpointType | `EDGE` | Defines the endpoint type, accepts `REGIONAL` or `EDGE`. |
| apiType | rest | Defines the api type, accepts `rest`, `http` or `websocket`. |
| tlsTruststoreUri | `undefined` | An Amazon S3 url that specifies the truststore for mutual TLS authentication, for example `s3://bucket-name/key-name`. The truststore can contain certificates from public or private certificate authorities. Be aware mutual TLS is only available for `regional` APIs. |
| tlsTruststoreVersion | `undefined` | The version of the S3 object that contains your truststore. To specify a version, you must have versioning enabled for the S3 bucket. |
| hostedZoneId | | If hostedZoneId is set the route53 record set will be created in the matching zone, otherwise the hosted zone will be figured out from the domainName (hosted zone with matching domain). |
| hostedZonePrivate | | If hostedZonePrivate is set to `true` then only private hosted zones will be used for route 53 records. If it is set to `false` then only public hosted zones will be used for route53 records. Setting this parameter is specially useful if you have multiple hosted zones with the same domain name (e.g. a public and a private one). If records need to be set in both private and public hosted zones use splitHorizonDns parameter. |
| splitHorizonDns | `false` | When `hostedZoneId` and `hostedZonePrivate` are not set, setting this to `true` creates route53 records in both private and public hosted zones with matching domain. |
| enabled | true | Sometimes there are stages for which is not desired to have custom domain names. This flag allows the developer to disable the plugin for such cases. Accepts either `boolean` or `string` values and defaults to `true` for backwards compatibility. |
securityPolicy | tls_1_2 | The security policy to apply to the custom domain name.  Accepts `tls_1_0` or `tls_1_2`|
allowPathMatching | false | When updating an existing api mapping this will match on the basePath instead of the API ID to find existing mappings for an update. This should only be used when changing API types. For example, migrating a REST API to an HTTP API. See Changing API Types for more information.  |
| autoDomain | `false` | Toggles whether or not the plugin will run `create_domain/delete_domain` as part of `sls deploy/remove` so that multiple commands are not required. |
| autoDomainWaitFor | `120` | How long to wait for create_domain to finish before starting deployment if domain does not exist immediately. |
| route53Params |  | A set of options to customize Route 53 record creation. If left empty, A and AAAA records with simple routing will be created. If `createRoute53Record` is `false`, anything passed here will be ignored.  |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; routingPolicy | simple | Defines the Route 53 routing policy, accepts `simple`, `latency` or `weighted`. |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; weight | `200` | Sets the weight for weighted routing. Ignored for `simple` and `latency` routing. |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; setIdentifier |  | A unique identifier for records in a set of Route 53 records with the same domain name. Only relevant for `latency` and `weighted` routing. Defaults to the regional endpoint if not provided. |
| route53Params:<br/>&nbsp; healthCheckId |  | An optional id for a Route 53 health check. If it is failing, Route 53 will stop routing to it. Only relevant for `latency` and `weighted` routing. If it is not provided, no health check will be associated with the record. |
| preserveExternalPathMappings | `false` | When `autoDomain` is set to true, and a deployment is removed, setting this to `true` checks for additional API Gateway base path mappings before automatically deleting the domain, and avoids doing so if they exist. |

## Running

To create the custom domain:
```
serverless create_domain
```

To deploy with the custom domain:
```
serverless deploy
```

To remove the created custom domain:
```
serverless delete_domain
```
# How it works
Creating the custom domain takes advantage of Amazon's Certificate Manager to assign a certificate to the given domain name. Based on already created certificate names, the plugin will search for the certificate that resembles the custom domain's name the most and assign the ARN to that domain name. The plugin then creates the proper A Alias and AAAA Alias records for the domain through Route 53. Once the domain name is set it takes up to 40 minutes before it is initialized. After the certificate is initialized, `sls deploy` will create the base path mapping and assign the lambda to the custom domain name through CloudFront. All resources are created independent of CloudFormation. However, deploying will also output the domain name and distribution domain name to the CloudFormation stack outputs under the keys `DomainName` and `DistributionDomainName`, respectively.

### Behavior Change in Version 3

In version 3, we decided to create/update/delete all resources through the API. Previously, only the basepath mapping was managed through CloudFormation. We moved away from creating anything through the stack for two reasons.

1) It seemed cleaner to have all resources be created in the same fashion, rather than just having one created elsewhere. Since multiple CloudFormation stacks can't create the same custom domain, we decided to have everything be done through the API.

2) We ran into issues such as [#57](https://github.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/issues/57) where the CloudFormation wasn't always being applied.

However, we still add the domain name and distribution domain name to the CloudFormation outputs, preserving the functionality requested in [#43](https://github.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/issues/43) implemented in [#47](https://github.com/amplify-education/serverless-domain-manager/pull/47).

## Running Tests
To run unit tests:
```
npm test
```

To run integration tests, set an environment variable `TEST_DOMAIN` to the domain you will be testing for (i.e. `example.com` if creating a domain for `api.example.com`). 
And `ROUTE53_PROFILE` for creating route53 record in one AWS account and deploy in another. Then,
```
export TEST_DOMAIN=example.com
export ROUTE53_PROFILE=default
export TLS_TRUSTSTORE_URI=s3://bucket-name/key-name
export TLS_TRUSTSTORE_VERSION=default

npm run build
npm run integration-test
```

All tests should pass. All unit tests should pass before merging. Integration tests will take an extremely long time, as DNS records have to propogate for the resources created - therefore, integration tests will not be run on every commit.

If there is an error update the node_modules inside the serverless-domain-manager folder:
```
npm install
```

## Writing Integration Tests
Unit tests are found in `test/unit-tests`. Integration tests are found in `test/integration-tests`. Each folder in `tests/integration-tests` contains the serverless-domain-manager configuration being tested. To create a new integration test, create a new folder for the `handler.js` and `serverless.yml` with the same naming convention and update `deploy.test.ts` or create a separate one with the `test.ts` ending.

## Changing API Types
AWS API Gateway has three different API types: REST, HTTP, and WebSocket. Special steps need to be taken when migrating from one api type to another. A common migration will be from a REST API to an HTTP API given the potential cost savings. Below are the steps required to change from REST to HTTP. A similar process can be applied for other API type migrations.

**REST to HTTP**
1) Confirm the Domain name is a Regional domain name. Edge domains are not supported by AWS for HTTP APIs. See this [guide for migrating an edge-optimized custom domain name to regional](
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-regional-api-custom-domain-migrate.html).
2) Wait for all DNS changes to take effect/propagate and ensure all traffic is being routed to the regional domain name before proceeding.
3) Make sure you have setup new or modified existing routes to use [httpApi event](https://serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/events/http-api) in your serverless.yml file.
4) Make the following changes to the `customDomain` properties in the serverless.yml confg:
    ```yaml
    endpointType: REGIONAL
    apiType: http
    allowPathMatching: true # Only for one deploy
    ```
5) Run `sls deploy`
6) Remove the `allowPathMatching` option, it should only be used once when migrating a base path from one API type to another.

NOTE: Always test this process in a lower level staging or development environment before performing it in production.


# Known Issues
* (5/23/2017) CloudFormation does not support changing the base path from empty to something or vice a versa. You must run `sls remove` to remove the base path mapping.
* (1/17/2018) The `create_domain` command provided by this plugin does not currently update an existing Custom Domain's configuration. Instead, it only supports updating the Route 53 record pointing to the Custom Domain. For example, one must delete and recreate a Custom Domain to migrate it from regional to edge or vice versa, or to modify the certificate.
* (8/22/2018) Creating a custom domain creates a CloudFront Distribution behind the scenes for fronting your API Gateway. This CloudFront Distribution is managed by AWS and cannot be viewed/managed by you. This is not a bug, but a quirk of how the Custom Domain feature works in API Gateway.
* (2/12/2019) Users who upgraded from 2.x.x to version 3.0.4 (now unpublished) and then reverted back to 2.x.x will be unable to deploy because of a bug that will be fixed in 3.1.0. The workaround is to delete the basepath mapping manually, which will let them successfully revert back to 2.x.x.
* (1/20/2022) Using `route53Profile` option requires having hosted zone for the domain in this profile and ACM certificate in the main profile (where functions are deployed).  

# Responsible Disclosure
If you have any security issue to report, contact project maintainers privately.
You can reach us at <github@amplify.com>

# Contributing
We welcome pull requests! For your pull request to be accepted smoothly, we suggest that you:
1. For any sizable change, first open a GitHub issue to discuss your idea.
2. Create a pull request.  Explain why you want to make the change and what it’s for.
We’ll try to answer any PR’s promptly.
